---
published: false
title: "How To Take Care of Your Photos"
permalink: "/get-online/photos"
series: "Get Online"
og_description: "Make sure you won't lose your pictures and can share them safely and easily"
---

The most unique and precious digital content most of us create are pictures. After taking them, we need to make sure we won't lose them if our computer dies and we want to share them with others.

## Principles

Set it and forget it: automation

Back up to cloud

Software that does it for you: on phone and on desktop

Learn enough about the platform you choose to be sure it is set up correctly. Exercise drill getting some photos back from cloud service.

Quality: high end smartphone cameras (iPhone 6S or Samsung Galaxy 7) take very good pictures. Low-end ones don't. Even a relatively cheap traditional camera like a Nikon Coolpix or Panasonic Lumix will do a much better job. Get one with wifi connectivity so you can transfer them directly to your computer or phone. If you do have a good smartphone camera, a good SLR can be a great complement, if you're motivated to learn how to take very high-quality pictures. Pictures of your family are investments that can you can get pleasure from for decades to come.

## Protection

Google Photos: auto-backup, editing

iCloud Photos

Backup Services: Backblaze, Carbonite


## Tips

If your phone as an SD card slot, put in the biggest one it supports (often 32 GB) and look up how to make the camera store the pictures on the SD card. That will allow you to take many more pictures.

To transfer your files directly from phone to computer, you can use a micro-USB cable. This is preferable to taking the SD card out of the phone. For a traditional camera, you can either plug it in or take out the SD card and put it into your computer.

## Sharing

Online albums: Google Photos, Facebook


